Artificial Intelligence in Autonomous Vehicles - Deep learning


Abstract:
Technology has come a long way since the invention of telephones. Each invention one after the other has been developed in a way that requires minimal human input. Artificial Intelligence(AI) plays a major role in almost every aspect of our day-to-day lives. It is where the machine is capable of analyzing the data collected and straightening out any problem that arises without human input. In layman’s terms, Artificial Intelligence is where the machine is capable of mimicking the problem-solving techniques as that of a human. There are three levels of Artificial Intelligence namely Artificial Narrow Intelligence(ANI) or also known as the weak Artificial Intelligence is where the machine focuses on only one task, Artificial General Intelligence(AGI) is where the machine is capable of mimicking the intellectual tasks as that of a human and last and final level is Artificial Strong Intelligence(ASI) is where the machine is much smarter than a human in many ways. Artificial Intelligence along with Machine learning and Deep learning are key technologies in automated driving. Machine Learning is a subset of Artificial Intelligence, it is a set of algorithms that makes Artificial Intelligence mimic human behavior and Deep Learning is a field of machine learning algorithm which extracts higher-level features from raw input using multiple layers. Deep Learning is an Artificial Neural Network(ANN) which is a set of algorithms that analyzes data with a logical structure in an attempt to draw similar conclusions as a human brain. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), 1.35 million die in car accidents per year worldwide. A research indicates that 94% of these car accidents can be traced back to human error such as usage of alcohol, speeding, texting, or even ignoring traffic rules while driving. Automation in vehicles is the solution to our problems. Autonomous cars use several sensors to distinguish their vicinity, for instance, GPS, radar, lidar, and sonar. Companies like Tesla, Waymo have already implemented this concept in their products and have reported it to be successful. Other companies like Amazon and Dominos have developed prototypes to deliver their packages without human contact. And the words “without human contact” sound like the holy grail during these difficult times.